Add PostgreSQL 19 series (#4821)
neondatabase/website: content/postgresql/postgresql-19/breaking-changes.md

---
title: 'PostgreSQL 19 Breaking Changes and Upgrade Notes'
page_title: 'PostgreSQL 19 Breaking Changes - What to Check Before Upgrading'
page_description: 'Review PostgreSQL 19 breaking changes including JIT disabled by default, LZ4 TOAST compression, RADIUS removal, and string handling changes before upgrading your database.'
ogImage: ''
updatedOn: '2026-04-15T00:00:00+00:00'
enableTableOfContents: true
previousLink:
  title: 'PostgreSQL 19 Monitoring and Operations'
  slug: 'postgresql-19/monitoring-operations'
nextLink:
  title: 'PostgreSQL 19 New Features'
  slug: 'postgresql-19-new-features'
---

> **Summary**: PostgreSQL 19 includes several breaking changes that may affect your applications and configuration. JIT compilation is now off by default, TOAST compression defaults to LZ4, RADIUS authentication is removed, and string handling is stricter. Review these changes before upgrading.

Reviewer: I'd put the MD5 change up here. There's still a lot of usage of that - and while it won't break, the warnign behavior is a change. RADIUS has almost no usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Summary**: PostgreSQL 19 includes several breaking changes that may affect your applications and configuration. JIT compilation is now off by default, TOAST compression defaults to LZ4, MD5-hashed passwords are being deprecated and string handling is stricter. Review these changes before upgrading.
```

If you run typical OLTP workloads (short queries, many transactions per second), you will likely see no change or a slight improvement from avoiding JIT overhead.

### What to Do

Test your most important queries with `jit = on` and `jit = off` before upgrading. If JIT helps, add `jit = on` to your `postgresql.conf` explicitly. If you are unsure, leave it off - that is the safer default.

## Default TOAST Compression Changed to LZ4

The `default_toast_compression` parameter changed from `pglz` to `lz4`.

```sql
-- Check your current setting
SHOW default_toast_compression;

-- Revert to old behavior if needed
ALTER SYSTEM SET default_toast_compression = pglz;
```

### What This Means

LZ4 is faster than pglz for both compression and decompression, with slightly lower compression ratios. For most workloads, this is a net improvement - less CPU time spent on compression with only marginally more disk usage.

Existing data is not affected. Rows already stored with pglz remain readable regardless of this setting. Only newly written or updated TOAST values use the new default. You can also override this per-column:

```sql

> ALTER TABLE my_table ALTER COLUMN big_text SET COMPRESSION pglz;

Reviewer: I'd show the general setting first (`ALTER SYSTEM SET default_toast_compression ... `).

The one thing about modifying it on a per table basis is that if you already have data in that table, you'll have to do a `VACUUM FULL` or `CLUSTER` to rewrite the storage (or if it sticks...`REPACK CONCURRENTLY` :)

SELECT 'it\'s broken';

-- Standard SQL way:
SELECT 'it''s fine';

-- Also works:
SELECT E'it\'s fine';
```

Most modern ORMs and database drivers already use `standard_conforming_strings = on`. If you are using a recent version of your driver, you are likely unaffected.

### escape_string_warning Removed

The `escape_string_warning` GUC has been removed entirely. Since `standard_conforming_strings` is always on, the warning is no longer needed. Remove this parameter from your `postgresql.conf` to avoid unknown-parameter errors on startup.

## MD5 Password Deprecation Warnings

PostgreSQL 19 emits a warning whenever a role authenticates using MD5 password hashing. This includes both the `md5` method in `pg_hba.conf` and passwords stored as MD5 hashes in `pg_authid`.

### Migration to SCRAM-SHA-256

The migration is a three-step sequence: switch the default password hash, force users to set new passwords so they re-hash under SCRAM, then flip the `pg_hba.conf` entries.

```sql
-- 1. Change the default password encryption
ALTER SYSTEM SET password_encryption = 'scram-sha-256';
SELECT pg_reload_conf();

-- 2. Have users reset their passwords (re-hashes as SCRAM)

> ALTER USER myuser PASSWORD 'new_password';

Reviewer: The more secure way to do this is through `psql` and `\password`, which will pre-hash the password. The above way can leak the plaintext to the log.

-- 3. Update pg_hba.conf entries from md5 to scram-sha-256
-- Change: host all all 0.0.0.0/0 md5

> -- To:     host all all 0.0.0.0/0 scram-sha-256

Reviewer: As part of the migration step, you can leave the `md5` entry until all the passworsd are re-hashed. Postgres knows to use SCRAM if you have a SCRAM-hashed password. After re-hashing the passwords, you can then flip the HBA entry to `scram-sha-256`.

If you have un-SCRAMed passwords, `scram-sha-256` will cause them to fail.
